Read-Eval-Print Loop

:  an interactive cycle in which the R-interpreter reads an expression from the console, evaluates it, and prints out the value to the console.

Interactive Mode

:  a type of engagment between a human and a computer in which the computer prompts the humand for data and/or commands and may respond with output that the human can read and/or interpret.

Environment

:  an object stored in the computer's memory that keeps track of name-value pairs.

Active Environment

:  the environment that R will consult first in order to find the value of any name in an expression.

Object-Oriented Programming

:  a programming paradigm in which programs are built around objects, which are complex structures that contain data.

Class

:  A general prototype from which individual objects may be created.  The definition of the class specifies the attributes and methods that shall be possessd by any object created from that class.  In addition, the definition of the class includes a function called an *initializer* that governs the creation of individual objects from the class.

Instantiation

:  The creation of an individual object as an instance of a class.  The objects gets all of the attributes and methods of the class (except for the initializer function).  Typically the intializer functions allows for determination of the values of some of the object's attributes at the time of instantiation.

Attribute

:  a data-field belonging to an object that is not a function.

Method

:  a data-filed belonging to an object that is a function.  Such a function usually has access to its inputs, to other data from its object, and to the objet itself.

Reference Semantics

:  When an object has *reference semantics*, assignments involving that object create a pointer to the object, rather than creating a copy of the object itself. 

Composition

:  the situation that arises when an object contains one or more other objects as a data-field.

Inheritance

:  the situation that arises when a class (known as the *child class*) is defined as being a particular type of some other class (known as the *parent class*).  By default the child class has all of the attributes and methods of the parent class.  The child class may be given additional attributes and methods.

Overriding

:  When a method defined in a child class has the same name as a method belonging to the parent class, then the child-class method is said to *override* the parent-class method.  When the method is called on an instance of the child class, the defining code in the child class, not the parent class, is used to execute the method.




Global Environment

:  the environment that is active when one is using R from the console.

"It’s useful to distinguish between the formal arguments and the actual arguments of a function. The formal arguments are a property of the function, whereas the actual or calling arguments can vary each time you call the function." -- H. Wickham, Advanced R.

Parameters of a Function

:  The parameters of a function (also called the *formal arguments* of the function) are the names that will be used in the body of the function to refer to the actual arguments supplied to the function when it is called.


